# Overview

Venus Periphery is an extension of the Venus Protocol ecosystem that contains auxiliary smart contracts used for advanced interactions with the core protocol. These contracts enhance the protocol’s usability, composability, and integration with external systems.

# Contracts

The first major addition in this repository is the PositionSwapper, a flexible module that enables users to swap their collateral or debt from one market to another directly within the Venus ecosystem.

# Development

## Prerequisites

- NodeJS - 20.x
- Solc - v0.8.25 (https://github.com/ethereum/solidity/releases/tag/v0.8.25)

## Installing

```bash

yarn install

```

## Run Tests

```bash

yarn test

npx hardhat coverage

REPORT_GAS=true npx hardhat test

```

- To run fork tests add FORK=true, FORKED_NETWORK and one ARCHIVE_NODE var in the .env file.

## Deployment

```bash

npx hardhat deploy

```

- This command will execute all the deployment scripts in `./deploy` directory - It will skip only deployment scripts which implement a `skip` condition - Here is example of a skip condition: - Skipping deployment script on `bsctestnet` network `func.skip = async (hre: HardhatRuntimeEnvironment) => hre.network.name !== "bsctestnet";`
- The default network will be `hardhat`
- Deployment to another network: - Make sure the desired network is configured in `hardhat.config.ts` - Add `MNEMONIC` variable in `.env` file - Execute deploy command by adding `--network <network_name>` in the deploy command above - E.g. `npx hardhat deploy --network bsctestnet`
- Execution of single or custom set of scripts is possible, if:
  - In the deployment scripts you have added `tags` for example: - `func.tags = ["MockTokens"];`
  - Once this is done, adding `--tags "<tag_name>,<tag_name>..."` to the deployment command will execute only the scripts containing the tags.

### Dry Run / Forked Deployments

To simulate what contracts would be deployed on a given network the deployment scripts support running on a forked network. To run the deployment scripts on a forked network the `HARDHAT_FORK_NETWORK` env variable needs to be set.

For example

```bash
HARDHAT_FORK_NETWORK=ethereum npx hardhat deploy
```

### Deployed Contracts

Deployed contract abis and addresses are exported in the `deployments` directory. To create a summary export of all contracts deployed to a network run

```
$ yarn hardhat export --network <network-name> --export ./deployments/<network-name>.json
```

## Source Code Verification

In order to verify the source code of already deployed contracts, run:
`npx hardhat etherscan-verify --network <network_name>`

Make sure you have added `ETHERSCAN_API_KEY` in `.env` file.

## Hardhat Commands

```bash

npx hardhat accounts

npx hardhat compile

npx hardhat clean

npx hardhat test

npx hardhat node

npx hardhat help

REPORT_GAS=true npx hardhat test

npx hardhat coverage

TS_NODE_FILES=true npx ts-node scripts/deploy.ts

npx eslint '**/*.{js,ts}'

npx eslint '**/*.{js,ts}' --fix

npx prettier '**/*.{json,sol,md}' --check

npx prettier '**/*.{json,sol,md}' --write

npx solhint 'contracts/**/*.sol'

npx solhint 'contracts/**/*.sol' --fix



MNEMONIC="<>" BSC_API_KEY="<>" npx hardhat run ./script/hardhat/deploy.ts --network testnet

```

## Documentation

Documentation is autogenerated using [solidity-docgen](https://github.com/OpenZeppelin/solidity-docgen).

They can be generated by running `yarn docgen`

# Links

- Website : https://venus.io
- Twitter : https://twitter.com/venusprotocol
- Telegram : https://t.me/venusprotocol
- Discord : https://discord.com/invite/pTQ9EBHYtF
- Github: https://github.com/VenusProtocol
- Youtube: https://www.youtube.com/@venusprotocolofficial
